---
title: Plus 1
permalink: /plus-one/
layout: page
published: true
---
## Earn Your Undergraduate and MPP Degree in Five Years
The Master of Public Policy (MPP) 4 Plus 1 program allows promising undergraduate students to complete both an undergraduate and MPP degree in five years. Completing each degree separately normally takes six years. Students apply for the 4 Plus 1 program as juniors or seniors. If admitted, juniors take four 3-credit courses (12 credits total) as undergraduates and take the remaining 24 credits as full-time MPP students in the summer following graduation and the Plus 1 year. The 12 MPP credits undergraduates take towards the MPP degree count as credit for both a bachelor's degree and an MPP degree. Seniors who enter the 4 Plus 1 program take three 3-credit courses (9 credits total) as seniors and the remaining 27 credits after as full-time MPP students during the summer following graduation and the Plus 1 year. Students take all of the required MPP courses and select electives at the Center City campus. 

## Application Requirements 
You may apply to the program as a junior after you've earned 45 undergraduate credits. Students take an MPP course each of the remaining four semesters as undergraduates. If you want to enter the program as a senior, apply once you have earned at least 75 credits toward an undergraduate degree. Seniors admitted to the program take 3 MPP courses in the final two semesters as undergraduates (see attached course schedule in pdf). Undergraduates are officially admitted to the MPP program effective in the Summer session after they graduate with a bachelor's degree. You are not required to take the GRE exam or to take any particular courses or course of study as perquisites for admission. For admission to the 4 Plus 1 program, you must meet the following eligibility requirements

- Undergraduate GPA of at least 3.5 in all courses
- A resume
- A personal statement that addresses your goals in the program, followed by a meeting with the MPP Director to discuss your suitability for the program
- Complete application form
- [Graduate School Application Form](https://www.temple.edu/grad/admissions/howtoapply.htm) and non-refundable application fee
- Approval to enter the program from the Director of the MPP program
- Proof that you are able to devote 9 credits as “free electives” if you are admitted as a senior (or 12 credits if you enter as juniors) outside of your undergraduate major or you are permitted to count specific MPP courses towards your major requirements, or some combination (PLCY 8118 and POLS 8001 qualify for the BA and MPP for Political Science majors; ECON 8122 qualifies for Economics majors). 

## How to Apply
If you're ready to apply, complete the [application form](https://liberalarts.temple.edu/sites/liberalarts/files/MPP%20Plus%201%20Application%20Form.pdf) and submit it to [mpp@temple.edu](mailto:mpp@temple.edu).
